# UlibCpp Documentation

This file contains the documentation for the UlibCpp library. Note that the
source code shown may not represent the actual source code. Please refer to
the actual files when details are unclear.

Please use the table of contents to navigate the document:

[Configuration](#configuration)<br/>
[Core header](#core-header)<br/>
[Logging](#logging)<br/>
[Stream](#stream)<br/>
[Threading](#threading)<br/>
[Win32 API](#win32-api)<br/>

## Configuration

These header files simplify the configuration of project types, e.g. WTL
projects.

`#include <ulib/config/Common.hpp>`

Defines the following:

- macro `UNUSED(x)`: Can be used in function signatures to suppress the
  warning about unused parameters, e.g.:

      void DoSomething(int arg1, CString arg2)
      {
          UNUSED(arg2);
      }

- `sizeof_array(x)`: determines the size of the array x, in number of
  elements:

      int allItems[] = { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 };
      for (size_t index = 0; index < sizeof_array(allItems); index++) ...

`Common.hpp` also includes:

`#include <ulib/config/CompileTimeWarningError.hpp>`

Defines the following:

- macro `ULIB_COMPILE_WARN(text)`: Outputs a warning in the compiler output;
  use it like this:

      #pragma ULIB_COMPILE_WARN("Check warning here")

- macro `ULIB_COMPILE_ERROR(text)`: Outputs an error in the compiler output;
  use it like this:

      #pragma #pragma ULIB_COMPILE_ERROR("C9999", "Don't forget to code here!")

`#include <ulib/config/Win32.hpp>`

Includes all sorts of Win32 API headers. This is the base of `Atl.hpp`. Check
the file contents for details.

`#include <ulib/config/Atl.hpp>`

Includes for an ATL based project. This is the base of `Wtl.hpp`. Check the
file contents for details.

`#include <ulib/config/Wtl.hpp>`

Includes for a WTL based project. Most WTL projects generated by the WTL
wizard can just include this file instead of the many ATL and WTL files in the
generated `stdafx.h` file. The necessary order of ATL and WTL headers are
ensured. Check the file contents for details.

`#include <ulib/config/BoostAsio.hpp>`

Includes the Boost header `<boost/asio.hpp>` and prevents default linking to
some Boost libraries; also disables warnings from the included headers. The
header also prevents auto-generating a WinSock-init class, which automatically
pulls in a dependency to the `winsock2.dll`.

`#include <ulib/config/BoostDateTime.hpp>`

Includes the Boost header `<boost/date_time.hpp>`, disables warnings and
also prevents linking to the `Boost.DateTime` library.

`#include <ulib/config/Android.hpp>`

Defines some types like `LPCTSTR` and macros like `ATLASSERT`, `ATLTRACE`,
etc., to be able to compile code that uses ATL or WTL data types under an
Android C++ project type. This header is experimental and currently misses a
`CString` implementation.

## Core header

The root ulib include folder contains some often used classes.

`#include <ulib/ulib.hpp>`

This include file includes all other headers. Only use this if you use almost
all of the library. Instead include single headers when you use specific
classes.

### Miscellaneous

#### Crash reporting

`#include <ulib/CrashReporter.hpp>`

Provides a single static function that initializes the crash reporter:

    static void CrashReporter::Init(
       const CString& appName, const CString& basePath,
       T_fnShowCrashDialog fnShowCrashDialog = T_fnShowCrashDialog());

The crash reporter catches any unhandled C++ exceptions and calls to
`std::terminate()` and writes a minidump crash dump file (extension .mdmp) to
a folder. The minidump file is stored in the `basePath` folder and the
`appName` is used as prefix for the filename. An optional function with the
following signature can be passed:

    void ShowCrashDialog(LPCTSTR filename);

The function is called after writing the minidump crash dump file in order to
show the user a dialog. Depending on the cause of the crash, the function may
not be called at all (e.g. due out of memory errors).

#### Dynamic library loading

`#include <ulib/DynamicLibrary.hpp>`

Provides a RAII helper class to load dynamic libraries (DLLs) and get function
pointers exported by it:

    class DynamicLibrary
    {
    public:
       /// ctor; loads module
       DynamicLibrary(LPCTSTR moduleFilename);
       /// dtor; frees module again
       ~DynamicLibrary();

       /// checks if library is loaded
       bool IsLoaded() const;

       /// checks if function with given name is available
       bool IsFunctionAvail(LPCSTR functionName) const;

       /// returns function with given function name and given function signature
       template <typename Signature>
       Signature GetFunction(LPCSTR functionName) const;
    };

#### Exception handling

`#include <ulib/Exception.hpp>`

This header contains an Exception class that is used whenever ulib throws an
exception and is derived from `std::exception`.

    class Exception : public std::exception
    {
    public:
       Exception(LPCSTR sourceFile, UINT sourceLine);
       Exception(const CString& message, LPCSTR sourceFile, UINT sourceLine);

       CString Message() const;
       CString SourceFile() const;
       UINT SourceLine();
    };

The exception message can also be retrieved with the base classes `what()`
method.

#### File finder

`#include <ulib/FileFinder.hpp>`

The class `FileFinder` helps with enumerating files. It has a static
convenience method that does everything:

    static std::vector<CString> FindAllInPath(
       const CString& path, const CString& fileSpec, bool findFolders, bool recursive);

The `fileSpec` may contain wildcards, like `*.*`, `*.png` or `IMG????.jpg`.
The flag `findFolders` indicates if folders should be found instead of files.
The flag `recursive` specifies if folders should be recursively searched.

The class can also be used manually:

    class FileFinder
    {
    public:
       FileFinder(const CString& baseFolder, const CString& fileSpec);

       /// indicates if any files were found
       bool IsValid() const;

       /// returns if the current file entry is a dot file, "." or ".."
       bool IsDot() const;

       /// returns if current file entry is a file
       bool IsFile() const;

       /// returns if current file entry is a folder
       bool IsFolder() const;

       /// returns complete filename of current file entry
       CString Filename() const;

       /// retrieves next file entry
       bool Next();
    };

Constructing the class already starts the search, so it's best to use it in a
`do-while` loop:

    FileFinder finder{ baseFolder, "*.*" };
    if (finder.IsValid())
    do
    {
       if (finder.IsDot())
          continue;
       ATLTRACE(_T("path: %s\n"), finder.Filename().GetString());
    } while (!finder.Next());

#### IoC Container

`#include <ulib/IoCContainer.hpp>`

This class provides an IoC (inversion of control) container that stores
references to objects in a central place.

    class IoCContainer
    {
    public:
       /// returns current instance of IoC container
       static IoCContainer& Current();

       /// registers reference for class
       template <typename TClass>
       void Register(std::reference_wrapper<TClass> ref);

       /// resolves class to object
       template <typename TInterface>
       TInterface& Resolve();
    };

At the start of the app, `Register()` any objects that should be globally
available, and resolve them using `Resolve()` at a later time.

#### Observer pattern

`#include <ulib/Observer.hpp>`

This header provides an implementation of the Observer pattern, much like the
C# event functionality. The `Subject` is the source of an event being sent to
zero, one or more observer functions.

    template <typename T>
    class Subject
    {
    public:
       /// function type to be called
       typedef std::function<T> T_fnSubject;

       /// adds new observer; new ID is returned
       int Add(std::function<T> fnObserver);

       /// adds new observer
       Subject<T>& operator+=(std::function<T> fnObserver);

       /// removes an observer by ID
       void Remove(int id);

       /// calls subject with zero arguments
       void Call();

       /// calls subject with one arguments
       template <typename T1>
       void Call(T1 param1);

       /// calls subject with two arguments
       template <typename T1, typename T2>
       void Call(T1 param1, T2 param2);

       /// removes all observer
       void Clear();
    };

`T` is the function signature of the observer functions. Define a subject
like this:

    Subject<void(const Widget& senderObject, const EventArgs& eventArgs)> m_buttonClicked;

In the code, set up an observer function or lambda:

    m_buttonClicked += [] (senderObject, eventArgs) { /* do something here */ }

The `Add()` method returns an `int` ID that can be used to remove observers
again.

#### Path handling

`#include <ulib/Path.hpp>`

This header provides the `Path` class with static methods to manipulate folder
or file paths.

    class Path
    {
    public:
       /// returns filename and extension
       static CString FilenameAndExt(const CString& path);

       /// returns filename without extension
       static CString FilenameOnly(const CString& path);

       /// returns extension only, with leading dot
       static CString ExtensionOnly(const CString& path);

       /// returns folder name, without filename, but ending slash
       static CString FolderName(const CString& path);

       /// returns short path name (filename in 8.3 format); file must actually exist
       static CString ShortPathName(const CString& path);

       /// make path relative to the given root path and returns it
       static CString MakeRelativeTo(const CString& path, const CString& rootPath);

       /// returns if stored path is a relative path
       static bool IsRelative(const CString& path);

       /// returns if path represents a file and if it exists
       static bool FileExists(const CString& path);

       /// returns if path represents a folder and if it exists
       static bool FolderExists(const CString& path);

       /// canonicalizes path by removing '..', etc.
       static bool Canonicalize(CString& path);

       /// adds a backslash at the end of the path
       static void AddEndingBackslash(CString& path);

       /// combine both path parts and return new path
       static CString Combine(const CString& part1, const CString& part2);

       /// returns the common root path of both given paths; returns empty string when there's no common root
       static CString GetCommonRootPath(const CString& path1, const CString& path2);

       /// returns special folder; see CSIDL_* constants
       static CString SpecialFolder(int csidl);

       /// returns the windows folder
       static CString WindowsFolder();

       /// returns the temp folder
       static CString TempFolder();

       /// returns file name of given module name (e.g. kernel32.dll); nullptr means the currently running .exe module
       static CString ModuleFilename(HMODULE moduleHandle = nullptr);

       /// creates a directory, possibly also creating non-existent parent directories
       static bool CreateDirectoryRecursive(LPCTSTR directoryName);

       // public members

       /// path separator string
       static const TCHAR Separator[2];

       /// path separator character
       static const TCHAR SeparatorCh = _T('\\');
    }

#### Singleton

`#include <ulib/Singleton.hpp>`

Provides a thread-safe singleton pattern implementation.

    class WidgetManager : public Singleton<WidgetManager>
    {
       // ...
    };

The singleton instance can then be accessed with:

    WidgetManager& manager = WidgetManager::Instance();

In a .cpp file, declare the implementation of the singleton like this:

    IMPLEMENT_SINGLETON(WidgetManager)

This defines the static variables needed to provide the singleton instance.

#### System exception

`#include <ulib/SystemException.hpp>`

An exception that additionally stores a Win32 error code:

    class SystemException : public Exception
    {
    public:
       /// ctor
       SystemException(const CString& message, DWORD win32ErrorCode, LPCSTR sourceFile, UINT sourceLine);

       /// returns win32 error code
       DWORD Win32Error() const
    };

#### UTF-8 conversion

`#include <ulib/UTF8.hpp>`

This header provides UTF-8 conversion functions:

    /// converts string to UTF-8 encoding
    void StringToUTF8(const CString& text, std::vector<char>& utf8Buffer);

    /// converts from UTF-8 encoded text to CString
    CString UTF8ToString(const char* utf8Text);

The UlibCpp library is compiled using the `UNICODE` define, so CString can
always hold the UTF-8 encoded string.

#### Command line parsing

`#include <ulib/CommandLineParser.hpp>`

The `CommandLineParser` simplifies parsing command line parameters and also
supports parsing arguments in double quotes, e.g. path names with spaces.

    class CommandLineParser
    {
    public:
       /// parses single long command line string
       CommandLineParser(const CString& commandLine = GetCommandLine());

       /// parses _tmain parameter
       CommandLineParser(int argc, LPCTSTR argv[]);

       /// returns next parameter
       bool GetNext(CString& nextParameter);
    };

The first parameter is always the executable's file path. The class can easily
be used in a while loop:

    CommandLineParser parser;
    CString parameter;
    while (parser.GetNext(parameter))
    {
       // do something with parameter
    }

#### Program options

`#include <ulib/ProgramOptions.hpp>`

The `ProgramOptions` class extends the command line parsing and provides a
way to specify all options of a program and then lets the class parse the
command line by itself.

As a first step, register an output handler:

    ProgramOptions options;
    options.RegisterOutputHandler([] (const CString& text) { _tprintf(text); });

You can also use the provided `OutputConsole` function:

    options.RegisterOutputHandler(&ProgramOptions::OutputConsole);

You can also decide to collect the output in a string and show a message box,
or use any other output mechanism.

If you want to show the user help text when `/h`, `/?` or `--help` is
specified, use:

    options.RegisterHelpOption();

Now register one or more parameters that you want to handle. This call
registers an option `-i` with long variant `--ignore-case`, a help text and
without further arguments:

    options.RegisterOption(_T("i"), _T("ignore-case"),
       _T("Ignores case on comparisons"),
       [] () { m_ignoreCase = true; return true; });

This call registers an option with a single argument:

    options.RegisterOption(_T("o"), _T("output"),
       _T("Specifies the output folder"),
       [] (const CString& arg) { m_outputFolder = arg; return true; });

This registers an option with multiple arguments:

    options.RegisterOption(_T("d"), _T("define"),
       _T("Defines a key with a value (2 arguments)"),
       2,
       [] (const std::vector<CString>& args) { /* do something with args */ });

The first two `RegisterOptions()` calls can also be written as:

    options.RegisterOption(_T("i"), _T("ignore-case"),
       _T("Ignores case on comparisons"),
       m_ignoreCase);

    options.RegisterOption(_T("o"), _T("output"),
       _T("Specifies the output folder"),
       m_outputFolder);

The `m_ignoreCase` and `m_outputFolder` variables are taken by reference
and are assigned appropriately while parsing.

Finally, call one of the `Parse()` functions:

    /// parses command line options, C-style
    void Parse(int argc, LPCTSTR argv[]);

    /// parses command line options, Win32-style
    void Parse(LPCTSTR commandLine);

When the user specified one of the help options, a help text is output, based
on the help texts specified in the `RegisterOption()` calls. You can check
for the help option and quit the app without starting up by checking
`IsSelectedHelpOption()`:

    if (options.IsSelectedHelpOption())
       return 0;

#### Date/time handling

These headers define date/time related classes.

`#include <ulib/DateTime.hpp>`

The class `DateTime` defines a point in time, with date and time parts. The
point in time is time zone agnostic and usually stored as local time. Be sure
to store dates as UTC in external systems (like databases) that may be running
in different time zones.

A `DateTime` object can be created in several ways:

    /// date/time status values
    enum T_enStatus { valid = 0, invalid, min, max };

    /// default ctor; initialized with invalid status
    DateTime();

    /// ctor; takes date/time components
    DateTime(unsigned int year, unsigned int month, unsigned int day,
       unsigned int hour, unsigned int minute, unsigned int second,
       unsigned int millisecond = 0);

    /// ctor; initialize with min or max status
    DateTime(T_enStatus status);

    /// returns current date/time
    static DateTime Now();

    /// returns current date with time part set to 00:00:00
    static DateTime Today();

    /// returns max time value
    static DateTime MaxValue();

    /// returns min time value
    static DateTime MinValue();

The date can also be modified using these methods:

    /// sets date/time components
    void SetDateTime(unsigned int year, unsigned int month, unsigned int day,
       unsigned int hour, unsigned int minute, unsigned int second,
       unsigned int millisecond = 0);
 
    /// parses ISO 8601 formatted date/time
    void ParseISO8601(const CString& iso8601Timestamp);

The properties of the date/time point can also be accessed with these getters:

    /// returns date/time status
    T_enStatus Status() const;
    /// returns year
    unsigned int Year() const;
    /// month of year; 1 = january
    unsigned int Month() const;
    /// day of month (1-31)
    unsigned int Day() const;

    /// hour in day (0-23)
    unsigned int Hour() const;
    /// minute in hour (0-59)
    unsigned int Minute() const;
    /// second in minute (0-59)
    unsigned int Second() const;
    /// millisecond in second (0-999)
    unsigned int Millisecond() const;

    /// day of week; 0: sunday; ... 6: saturday
    unsigned int DayOfWeek() const;
    /// day of year; 1-based
    unsigned int DayOfYear() const;
    /// returns time part of date
    TimeSpan TimeOfDay();

There are also operators for addition and subtraction of `TimeSpan` and
comparison operators with `DateTime`, not shown here.

Formatting dates as text can be done with these methods:

    /// ISO 8601 format
    enum T_enISO8601Format
    {
       formatY,       // year only
       formatYM,      // year and month
       formatYMD,     // year and month
       formatYMD_HM_Z,   // year, month, day, hour, minute and timezone offset
       formatYMD_HMS_Z,  // year, month, day, hour, minute, second and timezone offset
       formatYMD_HMSF_Z, // full date/time with fraction and timezone offset
    };

    /// formats date/time using ISO 8601 format
    CString FormatISO8601(T_enISO8601Format format = formatYMD_HMS_Z, bool basic = false,
        const TimeZone& tz = TimeZone::System()) const;

    /// formats date/time with given format, see _tcsftime
    CString Format(const CString& format, const TimeZone& tz = TimeZone::System()) const;

Note: Use UTC timezone if the date should be stored in external systems (like
databases) when it could be used in multiple time zones.

`#include <ulib/TimeSpan.hpp>`

The class `TimeSpan` defines a time span that can be positive or negative.

A `TimeSpan` object can be created in several ways:

    /// default ctor
    /// ctor, optionally taking a milliseconds duration
    TimeSpan(std::chrono::milliseconds span = std::chrono::milliseconds::zero());

    /// ctor; takes date/time span components
    TimeSpan(int hours, int minutes, int seconds, int milliseconds = 0);

    /// sets time span components
    void SetDateTimeSpan(int hours, int minutes, int seconds, int milliseconds);

The properties of the time span can also be accessed with these getters:

    /// component hours in span (-23 to 23)
    int Hours() const;
    /// component minutes in span (-59 to 59)
    int Minutes() const;
    /// component seconds in span (-59 to 59)
    int Seconds() const;
    /// component milliseconds in span (-999 to 999)
    int Milliseconds() const;

    /// span in hours (about -8.77e7 to 8.77e6)
    double TotalHours() const;
    /// span in minutes (about -5.26e9 to 5.26e9)
    double TotalMinutes() const;
    /// span in seconds (about -3.16e11 to 3.16e11)
    double TotalSeconds() const;
    /// span in milliseconds
    double TotalMilliseconds() const;

There are also operators for addition and subtraction of `TimeSpan` and
comparison operators with `TimeSpan`, not shown here.

Formatting time spans as text can be done with these methods:

    /// time span format
    enum T_enTimeSpanFormat
    {
       formatHMS,     // "hh:mm:ss" format
       formatISO8601, // ISO 8601, "PTxxHxxMxxS" format
    };

    /// formats time span using specified format
    CString Format(T_enTimeSpanFormat format = formatHMS) const;

`#include <ulib/TimeZone.hpp>`

The class `TimeZone` defines a time zone that can be used when formatting
`DateTime`objects as text.

Time zones can be accessed with these static methods:

    /// returns UTC timezone
    static TimeZone UTC();

    /// returns current system's timezone
    static TimeZone System();

    /// enumerates all timezones in the system
    static std::vector<TimeZone> EnumerateTimezones();

The `TimeZone` class can be accessed for further infos:

    class TimeZone
    {
    public:
       /// returns timezone name during daylight savings time
       CString DaylightName() const;

       /// returns timezone name during standard time
       CString StandardName() const;

       /// returns display name for timezone when enumerating all system timezones
       CString DisplayName() const;

       /// gets UTC offset for given date/time
       TimeSpan GetUtcOffset(const DateTime& dt) const;

       /// returns if date/time is in daylight savings time
       bool IsDaylightSavingTime(const DateTime& dt) const;
    };

#### Timer classes

`#include <ulib/Timer.hpp>`

The `Timer` class can be used to measure running time, e.g. for statistics or
debugging purposes. The class has a precision of about 15 ms.

    class Timer
    {
    public:
       /// ctor
       Timer();

       /// starts timer; timer must be stopped or reset
       void Start();

       /// stops timer; timer must be started
       void Stop();

       /// resets timer; timer must be stopped
       void Reset();

       /// restarts timer by resetting and starting again
       void Restart();

       /// returns elapsed time since Start() was called, in seconds
       double Elapsed() const;

       /// returns total elapsed time in seconds
       double TotalElapsed() const;

       /// returns if timer is running
       bool IsStarted() const;
    };

`Elapsed()` only considers the last `Start()` call, whereas `TotalElapsed()`
also returns the accumulated time from previous start/stop cycles.

`#include <ulib/HighResolutionTimer.hpp>`

The `HighResolutionTimer` has the exact same interface as the `Timer` class,
but has a higher resolution, as it uses the CPU's Performance Counters.

`#include <ulib/TraceOutputStopwatch.hpp>`

Both `Timer` and `HighResolutionTimer` classes can be used as types in the
`TraceOutputStopwatch` class that automatically provides trace output. Use it
like this:

    TraceOutputStopwatch<HighResolutionTimer> renderStopwatch{ _T("renderTime") };

The ctor and the dtor of the class both call `ATLTRACE()` to output start and
stop of the timer, and the elapsed time in a readable format.

## Logging

The `log` include folder contains classes for logging. It's not as thorough
as e.g. log4cxx, but often enough for smaller applications.

Logging involves the following concepts:

- Log level: Determines how severe a log message is
- Log message: The message text itself
- Log category: A tree-like hierarchy of loggers that determine what messages
  get logged where
- Layout: Determines how the log text is to be formatted
- Appender: Determines where the log text is going to be written or sent

Log categories are organized like a tree, and each tree node and leaf are an
instance of a `Logger` class. Here are some log categories, the tree "branches"
separated with dots:

    client
    client.renderer
    client.import
    client.import.audio
    client.import.models

The logger `client` sits at the root and has the loggers `renderer` and
`import`. The `import` logger again has two loggers `audio` and `models`.
Depending on the use cases, I can now log to one of the listed loggers:

    LOG_DEBUG(_T("rendering finished"), _T("client.renderer"));

Loggers are created on-the-fly if they are not found in the (root) logger's
tree. You can get a logger directy, e.g. like this:

    auto root = Log::Logger::GetRootLogger();
    auto logger = root->GetLogger("client.renderer");

Each logger can have one or more `Appender` that determines what to do with
log messages that are logged to this logger. Each appender has a `Layout`
object that determines how to format the log message. Setting this up on a
specific logger looks like this:

    auto patternLayout = std::make_shared<Log::PatternLayout>(_T("%F(%L): log [%p] %m"));
    auto debugAppender = std::make_shared<Log::OutputDebugStringAppender>();
    debugAppender->Layout(patternLayout);

    auto rendererLogger = Log::Logger::GetRootLogger()->GetLogger("client.renderer")
    rendererLogger->AddAppender(debugAppender);

Note that a logger, and also the root logger, has no appender by default. You
have to configure this before you can see any logging output.

The default behavior of each logger is to also send the log event to the
parent logger, in this case `client`, which may also log the message. This can
be changed on a by-logger basis and is called "additivity". For example, the
`client.renderer` messages shouldn't reach the `client` logger, since they
are only for debug console output:

    auto logger = Log::Logger::GetRootLogger()->GetLogger("client.renderer");
    logger->Additivity(false);

Each logger can also be configured to only log messages of a specific severity
or higher. The `client.import` (and all of those below) may only get
LOG_ERROR messages or above, to not degrade performance:

    auto logger = Log::Logger::GetRootLogger()->GetLogger("client.import");
    logger->Level(Log::Level::error);

`#include <ulib/log/Log.hpp>`

This header defines some common types used for logging, among them the log
levels:

    namespace Log
    {
       enum Level
       {
          debug = 0,
          info,
          warn,
          error,
          fatal,
          none,
       };
    }

### Logger class

`#include <ulib/log/Logger.hpp>`

This header files defines the `Logger` class that implements a logger that
can be part of a logger hierarchy.

    namespace Log
    {
       class Logger
       {
       public:
          // properties

          /// returns logger level
          Level Level() const;

          /// returns additivity flag
          bool Additivity() const;

          /// returns parent logger
          LoggerPtr Parent();

          /// returns full logger name
          CString Name();

          /// sets logger level
          void Level(Log::Level level);

          /// sets additivity
          void Additivity(bool additivity);

          // methods

          /// returns root logger
          static LoggerPtr GetRootLogger();

          /// returns logger with given name
          static LoggerPtr GetLogger(const CString& name);

          /// adds appender to this logger
          void AddAppender(AppenderPtr appender);

          /// removes all appender from this logger
          void RemoveAllAppender();

          /// removes given appender
          void RemoveAppender(AppenderPtr appender);
       };
    }

The header file also defines macros used for logging:

    LOG_DEBUG(msg, cat)
    LOG_INFO(msg, cat)
    LOG_WARN(msg, cat)
    LOG_ERROR(msg, cat)
    LOG_FATAL(msg, cat)

The `msg` parameter is a text that should be logged, and `cat` is a category
to be logged under. The category determines where in the logger hierarchy the
logged text is sent to.

`#include <ulib/log/LoggingEvent.hpp>`

The `LoggingEvent` class encapsulates properties of the logging event.
Normally you won't get in touch with the class. See the header file for
details.

### Layout class

`#include <ulib/log/Layout.hpp>`

The `Layout` class formats the logging event for output in an appender. You
can derive from this class in order to have a custom layout.

    namespace Log
    {
       class Layout
       {
       public:
          virtual ~Layout();

          /// appends header to output; override when necessary
          virtual void AppendHeader(CString& outputText);

          /// appends footer to output; override when necessary
          virtual void AppendFooter(CString& outputText);

          /// formats logging event to string
          virtual void Format(CString& outputText, const LoggingEventPtr loggingEvent) = 0;
       };
    }

Only the `Format()` method is mandatory to override. `AppendHeader()` and
`AppendFooter()` methods are called for appender that want to put a header
and/or a footer line in a log file.

### SimpleLayout class

`#include <ulib/log/SimpleLayout.hpp>`

The `SimpleLayout` class is derived from the `Layout` class and simply
formats the output text using the log level in capital letters, a dash and the
log text, e.g.:

    DEBUG - Render thread took 12.3 ms.

### PatternLayout class

`#include <ulib/log/PatternLayout.hpp>`

The `PatternLayout` class is derived from the `Layout` class and lets you
specify a printf-like pattern to specify how the log text should be formatted.

A pattern string consists of text and pattern specifiers that start
with the % char and end with a pattern character, similar to the printf
notation. The following characters have meaning:

- c: outputs logger name
- d: date in ISO 8601 format
- F: source filename where log message occured
- l: not supported
- L: source file line where log message occured
- m: log message; not supported
- n: platform-specific newline character
- p: log level (priority)
- r: not supported
- t: thread id
- %: percent sign

The following format modifiers are allowed:
- The - adds left justification to the string
- Next comes the minimum field width (excess space is padded)
- Optional . (dot)
- Next comes the maximum field width; if string is larger, the last n characters are shown

The class only has a ctor that lets you specify the pattern:

    namespace Log
    {
       class PatternLayout : public Layout
       {
       public:
          PatternLayout(const CString& pattern);
       };
    }

### Appender class

`#include <ulib/log/Appender.hpp>`

The `Appender` class is the base class for all appenders that can write the
formatted log text to a target. Each appender can have a different `Layout`
class set. Override this class to implement your own appender.

    namespace Log
    {
       class Appender
       {
       public:
          virtual ~Appender();

          /// returns layout object being used
          LayoutPtr Layout();

          /// sets new layout object
          void Layout(LayoutPtr layout);

          /// appends logging event to output
          virtual void DoAppend(const LoggingEventPtr loggingEvent) = 0;
       };
    }

### ConsoleAppender class

`#include <ulib/log/ConsoleAppender.hpp>`

The `ConsoleAppender` is derived from the `Appender` class and lets you write
the log text to the console using printf.

    namespace Log
    {
       class ConsoleAppender : public Appender
       {
       public:
          virtual ~ConsoleAppender();
          virtual void DoAppend(const LoggingEventPtr loggingEvent);
       };
    }

### OutputDebugStringAppender class

`#include <ulib/log/OutputDebugStringAppender.hpp>`

The `OutputDebugStringAppender` is derived from the `Appender` class and
uses the Win32 API function OutputDebugString to write the log text to the
debugger. The log text can also be intercepted with tools like the
SysInternal's Process Monitor.

    namespace Log
    {
       class OutputDebugStringAppender : public Appender
       {
       public:
          virtual ~OutputDebugStringAppender();
          virtual void DoAppend(const LoggingEventPtr loggingEvent);
       };
    }

### TextStreamAppender class

`#include <ulib/log/TextStreamAppender.hpp>`

The `TextStreamAppender` is derived from the `Appender` class and can write
the log text to a `Stream::ITextStream` instance. See the "Streams" chapter
for more infos on the `ITextStream` interface.

    namespace Log
    {
       class TextStreamAppender : public Appender
       {
       public:
          TextStreamAppender(std::shared_ptr<Stream::ITextStream> textStream);
          virtual ~TextStreamAppender();
          virtual void DoAppend(const LoggingEventPtr loggingEvent);
       };
    }

### AndroidLogcatAppender class

`#include <ulib/log/AndroidLogcatAppender.hpp>`

The `AndroidLogcatAppender` is derived from the `Appender` class and can
write the log text to the Android logcat facility. This class can only be used
when compiling and linking an Android C++ project type.

    namespace Log
    {
       class AndroidLogcatAppender : public Appender
       {
       public:
          virtual ~AndroidLogcatAppender();
          virtual void DoAppend(const LoggingEventPtr loggingEvent);
       };
    }

## Stream

The `stream` include folder contains classes for handing binary files, text
files and other streams. The classes are inspired by C#'s `System.IO.Stream`
classes.

### IStream interface

`#include <ulib/stream/IStream.hpp>`

This header defines the `IStream` interface that describes a stream that can
be read from, written to and seeked on.

    namespace Stream
    {
       class IStream
       {
       public:
          /// origin for Seek() operations
          enum ESeekOrigin
          {
             seekBegin = 0,
             seekCurrent = 1,
             seekEnd = 2,
          };

          virtual ~IStream();

          // stream capabilities

          /// returns true when stream can be read
          virtual bool CanRead() const = 0;
          /// returns true when stream can be written to
          virtual bool CanWrite() const = 0;
          /// returns true when seek operations are possible in the stream
          virtual bool CanSeek() const = 0;

          // read support

          /// reads amount of data into given buffer; returns if stream is at its end
          virtual bool Read(void* buffer, DWORD maxBufferLength, DWORD& numBytesRead) = 0;
          /// reads one byte
          virtual BYTE ReadByte();

          /// returns true when the stream end is reached
          virtual bool AtEndOfStream() const = 0;

          // write support

          /// writes out given data buffer
          virtual void Write(const void* dataToWrite, DWORD lengthInBytes, DWORD& numBytesWritten) = 0;
          /// writes out single byte
          virtual void WriteByte(BYTE byteToWrite);

          // seek support

          /// seeks to given position, regarding given origin
          virtual ULONGLONG Seek(LONGLONG seekOffset, ESeekOrigin origin) = 0;
          /// returns current position in stream
          virtual ULONGLONG Position() = 0;
          /// returns length of stream
          virtual ULONGLONG Length() = 0;

          /// flushes data
          virtual void Flush() = 0;
          /// closes stream
          virtual void Close() = 0;
       };
    }

### Stream exception

`#include <ulib/stream/StreamException.hpp>`

This header defines a `StreamException` class that is used throughout the
stream classes to report errors.

    namespace Stream
    {
       class StreamException : public Exception
       {
       public:
          StreamException(LPCSTR sourceFile, UINT sourceLine);
          StreamException(const CString& message, LPCSTR sourceFile, UINT sourceLine)
       };
    }

See the `Exception` class for more member functions.

### File stream

`#include <ulib/stream/FileStream.hpp>`

The `FileStream` class implements `IStream` based on a file in storage.

    namespace Stream
    {
       class FileStream : public IStream
       {
       public:
          /// file open mode
          enum EFileMode
          {
             modeCreateNew = 1,   ///< creates a new file; fails when it already exists
             modeCreate = 2,      ///< create a new file; if it already exists, it is overwritten
             modeOpen = 3,        ///< open an existing file; fail when no file was found
             modeOpenOrCreate = 4,///< open an existing file; create empty file when no file was found
             modeTruncate = 5,    ///< open an existing file; truncate file to 0 bytes; fail when no file was found
             modeAppend = 6,      ///< like modeOpen, and seeks to the end of the file; no seek before end is allowed
          };

          /// file access
          enum EFileAccess
          {
             accessRead = 0x80000000,      ///< read access to file only
             accessWrite = 0x40000000,     ///< write access to file only
             accessReadWrite = 0xC0000000, ///< read and write access to file
          };

          /// file share mode
          enum EFileShare
          {
             shareNone = 0,       ///< declines reading or writing the file
             shareRead = 1,       ///< allows reading from the file
             shareWrite = 2,      ///< allows writing to the file
             shareReadWrite = 3,  ///< allows both reading and writing
             shareDelete = 4,     ///< file can be deleted by others
          };

          /// ctor; opens or creates a file
          FileStream(LPCTSTR filename, EFileMode fileMode, EFileAccess fileAccess, EFileShare fileShare);

          /// returns if the file was successfully opened
          bool IsOpen() const;

          // more overridden IStream methods...
      };
    }

### Read-only memory stream

`#include <ulib/stream/MemoryReadStream.hpp>`


The `MemoryReadStream` class represents a memory-based stream that can only
be read from. Seeking is possible, but not beyond the buffer size. `CanWrite()`
returns false.

    namespace Stream
    {
       class MemoryReadStream : public IStream
       {
       public:
          MemoryReadStream(const BYTE* data, DWORD_PTR length);

          // more overridden IStream methods...
       };
    }

### Read-write memory stream

`#include <ulib/stream/MemoryStream.hpp>`

The `MemoryStream` class represents a memory-based stream that can be read
from and be written to. Writing beyond the current memory expands the memory space.
Seeking beyond the current memory space isn't possible.

    namespace Stream
    {
       class MemoryStream : public IStream
       {
       public:
          /// ctor; opens an empty memory stream
          MemoryStream();

          /// ctor; provides memory contents for memory stream
          MemoryStream(const BYTE* dataToUse, DWORD_PTR lengthInBytes);

          /// returns data
          const std::vector<BYTE>& GetData() const;

          // more overridden IStream methods...
       };
    }

### Null stream

`#include <ulib/stream/NullStream.hpp>`

The `NullStream` class implements a stream that behaves like `/dev/zero`:
Reading results in zeros, writing discards data, and seeking always seeks to
position 0.

    namespace Stream
    {
       class NullStream : public IStream
       {
       public:
          NullStream();

          // more overridden IStream methods...
       };
    }

### Endian aware filter

`#include <ulib/stream/EndianAwareFilter.hpp>`

The `EndianAwareFilter` implements some helper methods for reading and writing
16-bit and 32-bit values in an endian aware fashion. It can be used with any
`IStream` implementation. The method suffixes `LE` means little-endian and
`BE` means big-endian.

    namespace Stream
    {
       class EndianAwareFilter
       {
       public:
          EndianAwareFilter(IStream& stream);

          WORD Read16LE();
          WORD Read16BE();
          DWORD Read32LE();
          DWORD Read32BE();

          void Write16LE(WORD w);
          void Write16BE(WORD w);
          void Write32LE(DWORD dw);
          void Write32BE(DWORD dw);
       };
    }

# ITextStream interface

`#include <ulib/stream/ITextStream.hpp>`

This header defines the `ITextStream` interface that describes a text based
stream that can be read from and written to, both per-character and per-line.
The interface has similarities to `IStream` but doesn't derive from
it.

    namespace Stream
    {
       class ITextStream
       {
       public:
          /// text encoding that is possible for text files
          enum ETextEncoding
          {
             textEncodingNative,  ///< native encoding; compiler options decide if ANSI or Unicode is used for output
             textEncodingAnsi,    ///< ANSI text encoding; depends on the current codepage (not recommended)
             textEncodingUTF8,    ///< UTF-8 encoding
             textEncodingUCS2,    ///< UCS-2 encoding
          };

          /// line ending mode used to detect lines or is used for writing
          enum ELineEndingMode
          {
             lineEndingCRLF,   ///< a CR and LF char (\\r\\n) is used to separate lines; Win32-style
             lineEndingLF,     ///< a LF char (\\n) is used to separate lines; Linux-style
             lineEndingCR,     ///< a CR char (\\r) is used to separate lines; Mac-style
             lineEndingReadAny,///< when reading, any of the above line ending modes are detected when using ReadLine()
             lineEndingNative, ///< native mode is used
          };

          /// ctor
          ITextStream(ETextEncoding textEncoding = textEncodingNative,
             ELineEndingMode lineEndingMode = lineEndingNative);

          /// dtor
          virtual ~ITextStream();

          // stream capabilities

          /// returns text encoding currently in use
          ETextEncoding TextEncoding() const;

          /// returns line ending mode currently in use
          ELineEndingMode LineEndingMode() const;

          /// returns true when stream can be read
          virtual bool CanRead() const = 0;

          /// returns true when stream can be written to
          virtual bool CanWrite() const = 0;

          /// returns true when the stream end is reached
          virtual bool AtEndOfStream() const = 0;

          // read support

          /// reads a single character
          virtual TCHAR ReadChar() = 0;

          /// reads a whole line using line ending settings
          virtual void ReadLine(CString& line) = 0;

          // write support

          /// writes text
          virtual void Write(const CString& text) = 0;

          /// writes endline character
          virtual void WriteEndline() = 0;

          /// writes a line
          void WriteLine(const CString& line);

          /// flushes out text stream
          virtual void Flush() = 0;
       };
    }

### Text stream filter

`#include <ulib/stream/TextStreamFilter.hpp>`

The `TextStreamFilter` class is an implementation of `ITextStream` that uses
an underlying `IStream` to read from or write to a stream of any type. The
ctor needs the properties for text encoding and line ending to determine the
text format.

    namespace Stream
    {
       class TextStreamFilter : public ITextStream
       {
       public:
          TextStreamFilter(IStream& stream,
             ETextEncoding textEncoding = textEncodingNative,
             ELineEndingMode lineEndingMode = lineEndingNative);

            /// returns underlying stream (const version)
            const IStream& Stream() const;

            /// returns underlying stream
            IStream& Stream();

            // more overridden ITextStream methods...
       };
    }

### Text file stream

`#include <ulib/stream/TextFileStream.hpp>`

The `TextFileStream` implements reading from a text file. It's derived from
`TextStreamFilter` to provide the char-based and line-based read and write
methods, and internally uses a `FileStream` to access the file in storage.

    namespace Stream
    {
       /// text file stream
       class TextFileStream : public TextStreamFilter
       {
       public:
          /// ctor; opens or creates text file stream
          TextFileStream(LPCTSTR filename,
             EFileMode fileMode,
             EFileAccess fileAccess,
             EFileShare fileShare,
             ETextEncoding textEncoding = textEncodingNative,
             ELineEndingMode lineEndingMode = lineEndingCRLF);

          /// returns if the file was successfully opened
          bool IsOpen() const;

          /// returns true when the file end is reached
          bool AtEndOfStream() const;

       private:
          /// file stream
          FileStream m_fileStream;
       };
    }

## Threading

The `thread` include folder contains classes for multithreading purposes.

### Event classes

`#include <ulib/thread/Event.hpp>`

Defines two classes `ManualResetEvent` and `AutoResetEvent` that share the
same interface but differ in what happens when an event is `Wait()`ed on. The
ctor and the methods may throw a `SystemException` on error.

    class ManualResetEvent
    {
    public:
       ManualResetEvent(bool initialState);

       /// sets event
       void Set();

       /// resets event
       void Reset()

       /// waits given time (or infinitely) for event to get set
       bool Wait(DWORD timeoutInMilliseconds = INFINITE);

       /// returns internal event handle
       HANDLE Handle() const;
    };

### Mutex common header

`#include <ulib/thread/Mutex.hpp>`

Includes all other mutex related header files.

### Lightweight mutex

`#include <ulib/thread/LightweightMutex.hpp>`

Defines a light-weight, non-recursive mutex that may not call into kernel, and
so performing much faster than other mutex types. This is implemented using a
critical section. The ctor and the methods may throw a `SystemException` on
error. Note that this class is always used together with the `MutexLock`
class.

    class LightweightMutex
    {
    public:
       /// lock type
       typedef MutexLock<LightweightMutex> LockType;

       /// ctor
       LightweightMutex();

       /// dtor
       ~LightweightMutex();
    };

### Mutex lock classes

`#include <ulib/thread/MutexLock.hpp>`

Locks are used to obtain access to the object protected by the mutex. The lock
classes are templated classes that have access to the implementation of the
various mutex classes. `MutexLock` locks the given mutex while the object is
live:

    template <typename T>
    class MutexLock
    {
    public:
       /// ctor; locks mutex
       MutexLock(T& mutex);
       /// dtor; unlocks object
       ~MutexLock();
    };

The `MutexTryLock` doesn't lock in the ctor, but provides a `Try()` method:

    template <typename T>
    class MutexTryLock
    {
    public:
       /// ctor; takes a lockable object, but doesn't lock it yet
       MutexTryLock(T& mutex);

       /// dtor; unlocks object
       ~MutexTryLock();

       /// tries locking mutex until timeout (in milliseconds)
       bool Try(DWORD timeoutInMilliseconds);
    };

The `MutexUnLocker` class can temporarily unlock a locked mutex:

    template <typename T>
    class MutexUnLocker
    {
    public:
       /// ctor; takes a lockable object and unlocks it
       MutexUnLocker(T& mutex);

       /// dtor; locks object
       ~MutexUnLocker();
    };

### Reader-writer mutex

`#include <ulib/thread/ReaderWriterMutex.hpp>`

A mutex that supports locking for reading and for writing. Multiple readers
can lock the mutex, with only one writer being able to lock it for writing.

    class ReaderWriterMutex
    {
    public:
       ReaderWriterMutex();
       ~ReaderWriterMutex();
    };

There are two custom lock classes that can be used with `ReaderWriterMutex`.
The reader lock can be obtained multiple times:

    class ReaderLock
    {
    public:
       /// ctor; locks the mutex as reader
       ReaderLock(ReaderWriterMutex& mutex);
       /// dtor; releases the mutex
       ~ReaderLock();
    };

Only one writer lock can be obtained at any time:

    class WriterLock
    {
    public:
       /// ctor; locks the mutex as writer
       WriterLock(ReaderWriterMutex& mutex);
       /// dtor; releases the mutex
       ~WriterLock();
    };

### Recursive mutex

`#include <ulib/thread/RecursiveMutex.hpp>`

A recursively lockable mutex. This is implemented using a system mutex. The
ctor may throw a `SystemException` on error. Note that this class is always
used together with the `MutexLock` or `MutexTryLock` class.

    class RecursiveMutex
    {
    public:
       /// lock type
       typedef MutexLock<RecursiveMutex> LockType;

       /// try-lock type
       typedef MutexTryLock<RecursiveMutex> TryLockType;

       RecursiveMutex();
    };

### Thread handing

`#include <ulib/thread/Thread.hpp>`

The `Thread` class provides two methods for threads:

    class Thread
    {
    public:
       /// sets thread name for current or specified thread
       static void SetName(LPCTSTR threadName, DWORD threadId = DWORD(-1))

       /// returns current thread ID
       static DWORD CurrentId();
    };

The thread name appears in the debugger Threads window and may also appear in
minidump crash dumps.

## Unit test

The `unittest` include folder contains classes supporting writing unit tests.

### Auto-cleanup file

`#include <ulib/unittest/AutoCleanupFile.hpp>`

Provides a RAII class that deletes the file specified as soon as the object
goes out of scope:

    namespace UnitTest
    {
       class AutoCleanupFile
       {
       public:
          AutoCleanupFile(LPCTSTR filename)
          ~AutoCleanupFile();
       };
    }

### Auto-cleanup folder

`#include <ulib/unittest/AutoCleanupFolder.hpp>`

Provides a RAII class that creates a temporary folder that is deleted (as well
as its contents) as soon as the object goes out of scope:

    namespace UnitTest
    {
       class AutoCleanupFolder
       {
       public:
          AutoCleanupFile()
          ~AutoCleanupFile();
          const CString& FolderName() const;

       };
    }

## Win32 API

The `win32` include folder contains helper classes for the Win32 API.

### Clipboard

`#include <ulib/win32/Clipboard.hpp>`

Provides access to the Win32 clipboard.

    namespace Win32
    {
       class Clipboard
       {
       public:
          Clipboard(HWND hwnd = nullptr);

          ~Clipboard();

          /// empties the clipboard
          void Clear() const;

          /// returns number of formats currently on the clipboard
          int CountFormats() const;

          /// checks if a given format is available
          static bool IsFormatAvail(UINT format);

          /// returns text format (CF_TEXT or CF_UNICODETEXT)
          CString GetText();

          /// returns binary data for given clipboard format
          void GetData(UINT format, std::vector<BYTE>& data);

          /// sets clipboard text as format CF_TEXT or CF_UNICODETEXT (depending on build options)
          void SetText(const CString& text);

          /// sets clipboard data; generic function
          void SetData(UINT format, const BYTE* dataPtr, UINT size);

          /// registers a given format name
          UINT RegisterFormat(LPCTSTR formatName) const;

          /// returns format name for given format id
          CString GetFormatName(UINT format) const;

          /// enumerates all clipboard formats currently available on the clipboard
          void EnumFormats(std::vector<UINT>& formatList) const;
       };
    }

The class and its functions should be pretty self explanatory.

### Embedded browser support

`#include <ulib/win32/DocHostUI.hpp>`

This header file provides a default implementation of the automation interface
`IDocHostUIHandlerDispatch` that is used when customizing an IE WebBrowser
control. Derive your class from `IDocHostUIHandlerDispatchImpl` and
implement the methods that interest you. See detailed commands in the header
file itself.

### Win32 error messages

`#include <ulib/win32/ErrorMessage.hpp>`

Helps with handling Win32 error messages. Format an error code like this:

    DWORD win32ErrorCode = GetLastError(); // also for HRESULTs
    CString message = Win32::ErrorMessage(win32ErrorCode).ToString();

### Ini file access

`#include <ulib/win32/IniFile.hpp>`

Encapsulates access to .ini files:

    class IniFile
    {
    public:
       IniFile(const CString& iniFilename);

       /// returns integer value from section and key
       int GetInt(LPCTSTR sectionName, LPCTSTR keyName, int defaultValue);

       /// returns string value from section and key
       CString GetString(LPCTSTR sectionName, LPCTSTR keyName, LPCTSTR defaultValue);

       /// writes a string value to a section and key
       void WriteString(LPCTSTR sectionName, LPCTSTR keyName, LPCTSTR value);
    };

### Process handling

`#include <ulib/win32/Process.hpp>`

The `Process` class provides an easy way to start a process, without worrying
abount missing closing any handles.

namespace Win32
{
   class Process
   {
   public:
      /// sets working directory for process
      void WorkingDirectory(const CString& workingDirectory);

      /// creates process with given command line
      bool Create(const CString& commandLine);

      /// returns process handle
      HANDLE ProcessHandle() const;
   };

}

### Resource data handling

`#include <ulib/win32/ResourceData.hpp>`

Helps accessing data that is stored in the resources, e.g. as `RT_RCDATA` type.

    namespace Win32
    {
       class ResourceData
       {
       public:
          ResourceData(LPCTSTR resourceName, LPCTSTR resourceType = _T("\"RT_RCDATA\""),
             HINSTANCE instanceHandle = nullptr);

          /// returns true if the resource is available
          bool IsAvailable() const;

          /// returns resource data as byte array
          bool AsRawData(std::vector<BYTE>& rawData);

          /// returns resource data as string
          CString AsString(bool storedAsUnicode = false);

          /// saves resource data as file
          bool AsFile(LPCTSTR filename);
       };
    }

The ctor lets you pass the resource name, e.g. using the `MAKEINTRESOURCE()`
macro, and the resource type. You can also specify a different instance
handle, e.g. when using resource DLLs.

### Version info resource

`#include <ulib/win32/VersionInfoResource.hpp>`

The `VersionInfoResource` class lets you access the version info resource
stored in an .exe or .dll file. There are fixed infos and language-dependent
resources.

    VersionInfoResource resource{ filename };
    if (!resource.IsAvail())
       return;
    FixedFileInfo* info = resource.GetFixedFileInfo();

The `FixedFileInfo` class looks like this:

    class FixedFileInfo : public VS_FIXEDFILEINFO
    {
    public:
       CString GetFileVersion() const;
       CString GetProductVersion() const;
       CString GetFileOS() const;
       CString GetFileType() const;
    };

The four methods serve to format a displayable text from the infos stored in
the Win32's `VS_FIXEDFILEINFO` struct.

Version info resources may also contain language-dependent strings. The
languages can be queried like this:

    typedef struct tagLANGANDCODEPAGE
    {
       WORD wLanguage; // language code
       WORD wCodePage; // code page
    } LANGANDCODEPAGE, *PLANGANDCODEPAGE;

    void GetLangAndCodepages(std::vector<LANGANDCODEPAGE>& langAndCodepageList);

    CString GetStringValue(const LANGANDCODEPAGE& langAndCodepage, LPCTSTR valueName);

First get all `LANGANDCODEPAGE` entries using `GetLangAndCodepages()`, then
call `GetStringValue()`, specifying the value name. These can be e.g.
"Comment", "ProductName", "SpecialBuild" or any other text values appearing in
the version info resource.

### Windows 7 task bar

`#include <ulib/win32/Win7Taskbar.hpp>`

Provides access to the Taskbar and its functionality introduced in Windows 7.
The main goal is to control the task bar icon's progress bar.

This opens the taskbar for the given HWND:

    Win32::Taskbar taskbar{ m_hWnd };
    if (!taskbar.IsAvailable())
       return; // below Windows 7

You can open the progress bar for the taskbar icon for this process:

    Win32::TaskbarProgressBar progressBar = taskbar.OpenProgressBar();

    progressBar.SetState(TBPF_NORMAL);
    progressBar.SetPos(40, 100); // 40 of 100 percent done

Other states that can be set are:

- `TBPF_NOPROGRESS`: Stops showing progress
- `TBPF_INDETERMINATE`: Shows an indeterminate progress, cycling repeatedly
- `TBPF_NORMAL`: Shows normal progress using the values set via `SetPos()`
- `TBPF_ERROR`: Shows error progress (red background color)
- `TBPF_PAUSED`: Shows paused progress (yellow background color)

When `TaskbarProgressBar` leaves the scope and the dtor is called, the
progress is also set to `TBPF_NOPROGRESS`.

### System image list

`#include <ulib/win32/SystemImageList.hpp>`

Provides two static methods in the `SystemImageList` class:

    class SystemImageList
    {
       static CImageList Get(bool smallIcons);
       static int IndexFromFilename(LPCTSTR filename);
    };

The `Get()` method returns the system's image list. Use this for list views or
tree views that show file icons. Be sure to mark the image list as shared,
e.g. using the LVS_SHAREIMAGELISTS style on list views.

The `IndexFromFilename()` returns an image list index for the given filename.
The file name doesn't have to exist.
